you now have a decent amount of content on your Gatsby sites spread across four pages. The only problem is that all of this content is unstylish and looks pretty terrible. In this lesson, you're going to start to learn how you can style your Gatsby sites using C.S.S. along the way. This video also covers the process of installing and setting up gatsby-plugin-react-helmet a gatsby-plugin-react-helmet syntax. But let's get started with some basic styles. Getting those applied to the site in a visual studio code. The first thing we're gonna do is create a new place for our site styles. Now I'm going to close all open editors. There's no need to have all of these files open anymore and down below in the source directory. This is where we're gonna add a new folder. I'll call this something like styles. Once again in the name is not important. And in there I'm going to put a new file called index dot C.S.S.. This will be the start of these styles for our site and to make it obvious whether or not these styles are being included, all we're going to do is use the universal selector to select every element on the page and we're going to change its color over to read. Now, by default, we can see these styles are definitely not being applied. Nothing over here is red, and this is correct by default. Gatsby is not gonna load in any of your style sheets. It's up to you to import them. And in this case, we're gonna import our base style sheet from the layout component as the layout component is used on each and every page. So we need to do is set up another import statement to get those styles included in the static site that Gatsby generates right here. Importing that's gonna be dot dot to get out of the components directory forward slash styles forward slash index dot C.S.S.. Now, with just that, one line added, we can save the component and we can see that the styles are definitely being applied as everything is red. And there we go. We now have a style sheet loaded in, and we could write every style for our entire Gatsby site right inside of here. Now, that's not the approach we're going to take. We're going to break things up a little bit, but this is a great starting point. Before we go any further, what I want to do is enable a C.S.S. pre processor here will be using cess, allowing us to take advantage of the S C.S.S. syntax so we can use all of the great features, functions, mix ins and other tools it provides. Now to do that, we are going to use our very first. You can find a list of all available plug ins on it. He Gatsby site. That's Gatsby JS dot org's. And here's the site I had pulled up earlier in the boot camp. Now, in this case, we're looking for the Plug ins page. This allows us to search through all of the available plug ins to find the one we're looking for. Now. This list includes both official plug ins released and maintained by the Gatsby core team, and it also includes third-party-apis slug ins written and maintained by members in the community. So right here, the one we're looking for happens to be an official plug in. And if I search for C.S.S. here it iss it is Gatsby plug in SAS. So currently I can use the import statement to import a C.S.S. file. But if I tried to import a SAS file or an s C.S.S. file, Gatsby wouldn't know what to do. Once we have this plug incorrectly installed and configured, it will all work as expected. The right hand side. We have the documentation for this particular plug in here. We need to install a few things and add a little bit of configuration, and we're going to work through that process together. So let's go ahead and set up support for this by moving into the terminal, shutting down the development server using clear to clear the output and finally using NPM install. So right here, that's NPM install. And the first thing we're going to install is the plug in that is Gatsby hyphen plug in hyphen sass as seeing over here. So all of these are the names of the NPM modules. And the other thing we need, which is mentioned in the docks for this plug in is Node SAS. So this module is responsible for actually converting the files down to regular C.S.S.. And this plug in just allows us to actually do that from a Gatsby site. Now we can go ahead and run this installation command, installing both of those tools. And once that's done, all we need to do is configure our Gatsby site toe, actually use that plug in. It's not enough to just install the plug in. It actually needs to be configured. Now, this is done via a file that currently does not exist in our project. But we can go ahead and create it. It needs to live in the root of our project, and it needs to be called Gatsby hyphen config dot J s. Now there's a lot we can do in this file as well explore throughout the boot camp. One of the core things we can do in here is configure the plug ins we want to use, and that's exactly what we're gonna end up doing. This config file just needs to export an object, But it's important to note that this is a Node JS file. So we need to use ma jewel dot exports setting that equal to the thing we want to export in this case, an object. Now on here. One of the main properties we're gonna end up using in this config file is plug ins. Plug ins is an array, and here we can configure all of the plug ins we want to use. Now, in our case, we only have the one plug in. So we're going to provide that as one of our items in the plug ins array. And all we need to do is list out the name of the plug in. That is Gatsby hyphen. Plug in hyphen SAS. We can save the file, and now we're actually ready to use s C.S.S. or SAS, in the project. So down below in the terminal, make sure to stop your development server. If it's running, mine's not. And then we're going to start it up again. NPM run, develop. And once it's up, it's going to be using this plug in, which means we can now create and import s C.S.S. or sass files. So I'm going to do just that. What I'm going to do is take styles dot C.S.S. Excuse me index dot C.S.S. in the styles folder, and I'm going to rename. I'm going to call it index dot s C.S.S.. Then what I'm going to do is import that file instead of importing the file that no longer exists. I just add the S save the layout component and now our site should be back to a nice working state. Here, everything is still shown in red. And if I go over to the style sheet, I could change that toe blue, save the file and I can see that my change is indeed being applied. With that plug in in place, we should also be able to use all of the great s C.S.S. features. So I'm going to create a variable up above using dollar sign followed by the variable name, and I'll store the green color inside of there, then down below instead of just providing the color all reference it via that variable, So dollar sign color. Now, this would not work in regular C.S.S., but we're not working in regular C.S.S.. We are in an S C.S.S. file and right here I can see that green is showing up. So there we go with a little bit of configuration adding just a few lines of code to our new file were able to tell Gatsby that we want to use a gatsby-plugin-react-helmet e for our site. Now let's go ahead and wrap up the video by grabbing a nice base set of styles will be using for the project. You can grab these styles by heading over to the browser and going to the following u r l. That's links dot mead dot io forward slash Gatsby styles. Now, this is just going to redirect you over to a get hub. Just and here we have a very long style sheet. This is what we're going to copy over to our project as our starting point. So right here, I'll click the raw button to pull up the raw file content. I'm going to highlight everything using command A or control A depending on your OS. Then I'll copy it to the clipboard and paste it over here in index dot s C.S.S. removing the stuff we had before. Now, with this in place, we should notice a pretty big change to how our website looks over here. What I'm gonna do is pull up. The site will notice it's no longer in green, which is good, and will also notice that it's definitely a little bit styled. We have nicer font families and a little bit of spacing along with nicer font size is now. Obviously, we're not done styling just yet, but using that base set of styles will be able to further customize these styles for art project. So that's where we're going to stop for this video. We now know how to add basic styles into our Gatsby project, and in the next lesson, we're going to take that to the next level by learning about C.S.S. modules. That is my favorite way to style React components. So let's go ahead and jump right into that.