Welcome to the very first lesson for the Great Gatsby boot camp, where we're going to start using Gatsby in this video in particular, we're gonna focus on three things. One, we're gonna learn a little bit more about Gatsby to we're going to install The Gatsby Command line interface. And three, we're gonna use that command line interface to create and run. Our very First Gatsby project by the end will have our first Gatsby site up and running. And that's what we're gonna build off of and customize throughout the rest of the boot camp. Let's get started with Gatsby by pulling up its website. We confined that over at Gatsby JS dot org's and I want to spend it just a couple of minutes here, exploring the tool in a little more detail. As mentioned in the welcome video, Gatsby is a static site generator based on React. GraphQL que el and Node J s. Now Gatsby can do so much more than you contest likely do with a static site generator, and you actually won't see that term anywhere on The Gatsby home page. So instead, let's think of Gatsby as a React framework for building complex websites and Web applications. So with Gatsby, you're not just limited to static sites. You can also build complex Web apse with data storage, authentication and more. So if I'm trying to build a personal website to make myself look good to potential employers, I could use Gatsby to get that done. If I want to start a freelance Web development business building websites for restaurants, I could use Gatsby for that, too. And if I wanted to launch the next start up and I needed to create my Web app, I could use Gatsby to build that Web app out. Now Gatsby has gotten so popular because it's really fast and super easy to work with. Gatsby has so many core features baked right in, so you can get started with a new project in a matter of minutes without needing to install or customize any build tools. Gatsby comes with everything you need to get started right away, and the good news is that you can further customize your Gatsby projects, using one of the many plug ins that it supports. These plug ins allow you to add all sorts of new features to your site, both big and small. And don't worry, we'll be diving deep into plug ins and how to use them a little later in the boot camp. Now let's say I'm creating a personal website using Gatsby. I wanna have a small portfolio of my projects, and I also want to maintain a and making myself look good to potential employers. Now, for me, I want to write those posts in markdown. I like having my content directly inside of the project itself. So what I want to do is write markdown posts. Then I want Gatsby to convert those over to individual H.T.M.L. pages for my site. In that case, there is a gatsby-plugin-react-helmet us. Get that done. So all we need to do is write the markdown posts in new markdown files, and Gatsby handles the heavy lifting of converting those over to H.T.M.L. pages, using a unified template so everything looks consistent in your sight. Now let's go back to that other example of someone who's starting a freelance business targeting restaurants. In that case, the restaurant owners want to customize things. They want a blogger taken, talk about new specials, and they also want to be able to update their menu on the fly whenever it's convenient for them now. In that case, markdown is eight terrible choice. The restaurant owner is likely not technical and does not want to manage content in markdown. They would have to learn about markdown and code and get in all sorts of things. It's never going to happen. That's why content management systems like Wordpress got so popular it allowed website owners to easily manage the content displayed on the site without needing to write code. The good thing about Gatsby is that it conduce to that same thing. There are and even Wordpress so you can have a website powered by Gatsby but still allow the website owner to manage that content, using a nice, simple admin interface where they're just filling out forms, fields and clicking, Save and the new content magically appears. I remember when I was running my freelance Web development business from about 2000 and 11 to about 2000 and 15 and everyone you talked to wanted a Wordpress site. They didn't want a Wordpress site because they cared about using PHP or my SQL. They wanted a Wordpress site because they knew with a Wordpress site, they could customize the content on their own. Now everyone can have what they want. Developers can write their sites in a modern stack, using no JS GraphQL well and React, and the website owners can still manage their content using whatever CMS they're most comfortable with, including Wordpress in this boot camp will end up covering both of those approaches. So we're going to start off creating a simple Gatsby site and getting comfortable with the basics. Then we'll convert that over to a blog-posts word by markdown files and from there will convert it over to a blog-posts word by a content management system and in this case, will be using the Contentful CMS to get that done. Now let's actually get started with Gatsby. The only thing you need installed on your machine to use Gatsby is Node JS. If you don't have Node installed, you can grab it over at Node JS dot org's and you don't need a specific version. Just grab something modern. Let's say V eight or greater. In this case, we have V 10 and 11. Both of those would be perfectly fine. And if you have something slightly different on your machine. That's gonna work fine as well. Now, to actually use Gatsby, we have to install its command line interface that's going to be used to generate new Gatsby projects. And it's available as an NPM module. So what I'm gonna do is crack open my terminal, and from here we're going to run a single NPM command. That's NPM install followed by the G flag to install the module globally. And the module name is Gatsby hyphen C L. I at the latest version to appoint 4.17. Now, if we go ahead and run this command, it's gonna work through the installation process. And once this is done over, going to do is generate a New Gatsby project and open it up in visual studio code or whatever text editor you want to use. So right here The installation did complete successfully and to generate a new project. First, we want to figure out where to store the project. Now, if you have a folder on your machine where you like to store your programming projects, go ahead and switch to that directory for this boot camp. I'm just going to put the new project right on my desktop, so I'll use CD desktop to switch over to the desktop. And from here we're going to use The Gatsby New Command. Now the new command is going to accept a couple of arguments. First up is the project name. Now this project name is the name of the folder that's going to get created. So in this case, I'll call it something like Gatsby hyphen boot camp. And the other argument we provide is the U. R L to the starter we want to use Now. Gatsby has a few built in starters officially released by The Gatsby team, and there are hundreds of other ones created by third parties developers allowing you to build all sorts of interesting sights and applications. The goal in this boot camp is to explore the fundamental Gatsby features, and if you know those, you'll be able to work with and customize any of those other starters out there. So for us, it's gonna be the following u r l https colon forward slash forward slash get hub dot com forward slash Gatsby J s forward slash Gatsby Hyphen starter hyphen. Hello, hyphen world. So take a quick moment to run that command, and it's going to do two important things. One, It's going to create that new project folder and pull all of these starter code in to what it's doing right now is installing all of the modules necessary for your project toe actually run. Once this command is done, we can crack open the new directory in visual studio code and get started building out our site. Actually, before it's even done, we can get that process started. So over in visual studio code, I'm gonna open up that new directory now for me. I put it on my desktop and I called it Gatsby Boot camp. So I'll crack that open and right here, you'll notice we do have a set of files and folders showing up, and we will explore all of these in detail. For now, all I want to do is run a single command from the terminal, allowing us to start our site up now in the background. Aiken, see that the command has finished and were actually done with the terminal. We're not going to use this for anything else in the boot camp. All of the other terminal commands. I'll be running. I'm going to run from the integrated terminal that visual studio code comes with. You can always go up to Terminal New Terminal, defying the keyboard shortcut to open up the terminal in VSC. It's definitely a keyboard shortcut I recommend. Now right here. We're going to run one of the few scripts that Gatsby provides. If we open up Packaged doc, Jason Weaken, see under the scripts Property we have six. The one that we're going to start with is the develop script, which allows us to start up the development server that we can use to run our app locally and build the project out. This comes with all sorts of great features, like Live, reload, so your changes are reflected in real time. Now there are a few other commands as well. We'll be exploring later in the boot camp. But for now, let's start with that develop script. So from the terminal right here in the Gatsby boot camp project that is NPM run develop. When we do that, it's going to try to start up our Gatsby project. The default port for that is 8000 and once this command is done, we should be able to crack open local host 8000 and visit our site here. It's saying that things have compiled successfully, so let's crack this side open in a new browser tab. Local host on port 8000. I visit that in What do I get? I get a small H.T.M.L. page printing hello World to the screen. So there we go. If you're seeing this, that means you have successfully created and ran your very First Gatsby project. Now, for the moment, it doesn't do anything too interesting. So let's go ahead and wrap up by actually customizing what we're seeing on the page. To get that done, we need to focus on the source directory. Now we have a lot of other folders and files in the project will focus on those later in the boot camp. For now, the focus is on to the source directory, and if we open that up, we can see there is a single directory inside of there called pages. The Pages directory is a very important folder in Your Gatsby project, and it's actually the topic of the next lesson. So for the moment, we're not going to dive too much into the details of what it is or how everything's working. If we go inside of that folder, though, we can see we have a single file index dot JS. This contains the React component that's rendering the home page right here. If I open it up, we can see it's about as simple as it gets online. One we import React on line three. We export a functional component where we set up a div with the text of Hello World. So this is the content or seeing in the browser. If I go ahead and remove that text content, I can replace it with something like the name of the boot camp, The Great Gatsby boot camp. I can save the file, and in real time we can see the changes reflected over here, thanks to the development server were running in the background. All right, that's where we're going to stop for this one. In this first lesson, you got Gatsby installed and you also created and started up your very First Gatsby site. In the next lesson, if the focus is gonna be on Gatsby, pages will talk about customizing pages and creating new ones, and the focus will be on that page is directory and the files inside. I'm really excited to get to that and learn more about why all of this is even working, so let's jump right in to the next lesson.