Welcome back in this video as promised. I just want to take a couple of minutes to explore how you can set up an alternative to grafitti que el This is the default i d e for working with your GraphQL ul A.P.I. in Gatsby. But Gatsby also comes with support for another i. D e. No one has GraphQL que ella playground. It's a lot newer and comes with a much nicer feature set, including some what I would consider essential features Now to swap out Graphic UL for GraphQL ul Playground, all we really need to do is set an environment variable on our machines. And we're going to do this in a cross os compatible way. So right here we can close all open editors. We don't even need the source directory for this video. And we're going to focus on Packaged doc Jason. Now, this could be as easy as setting up the environment variable right here in the script. The problem with that is, it's not cross Os compatible, so instead will create an environment variable in a separate file, which will load in a very common approach. So right here a new file in the root of the project called Don t envy dot development In here, we're going to define our key equals value pairs for the environment variables. Now, in our case, we just need one. The name is Gatsby. Underscore Graphic UL Underscore I d e and the value we want is playground That's going to enable GraphQL que el playground support giving us that new tool in the browser. So now that we have this in place, the only thing we need to dio is actually load this file in when we're using the development server. And to do that will use the very popular E N v c M d N p M package down below in the terminal. I'm gonna use control, see to shut down of the development server. Then we'll use NPM install with the Save Dev flag. Since this is a dependency we only need in development and from here, we're going to go ahead and set up the following e n v a c m d. So let's go ahead and install this, and once it's installed, we're actually going to work it in to our package-json script. So inside of package dot Jason What are we going to do? We're going to change the development script right here. It's gonna use e n v c m d toe load that environment variable file in. Then it'll run Gatsby, develop right here. We're gonna modify this script that's going to be E N v hyphen cmd the new tool we just installed. And from there over going to do is provide the name of the file we've created. Don t envy dot development and we're done. Now it's going to load those environment variables in then run the Gatsby server. So let's save package dot Jason in the terminal down below. We're going to start it up like we've done before. Npm run, develop And once it's up and running over going to do is refresh the graphic eq u l page over here and we should see something quite different. I'll go ahead and give it a refresh, and we can see it's loading an entirely new interface. Here we have GraphQL que el Playground. Now it comes with the same set of features. I type my query over here. I can run it and see their response, but it's a lot easier to work with. We could manage tabs so we can have multiple queries at the same time. We also have a nicer set of docks that, in my opinion, is much easier to work with. So here we have site. Then we can see all the arguments and our fields below site meta data title and author so we can see everything in one shot making it a lot easier to construct the queries we want to perform. So that's it for this video. I just wanted to show you how you could set up support for this new tool going forward. I'll see you in the next one.